---
layout: post
title: DDD
---

DDD(Domain Driven Design)

## Ubiquitous Language ##

### Notes  ###

* > Use the model as the backbone of a language. Commit the team to exercising that language re-lentlessly in all communication within the team and in the code. Use the same language in diagrams,
  > writing, and especially speech.

* > a change in the UBIQUITOUS LANGUAGE is a change to the model

* >  With a UBIQUITOUS LANGUAGE, the model is not just a design artifact. It becomes integral to everything the developers and domain experts do together. The LANGUAGE carries knowledge in a dynamic form. Discussion in the LANGUAGE brings to life the meaning behind the diagrams and code.

### Lessons

Ubiquitous language is a powerful tool not only for project also for team organisation. We always can figure out some specific items which are used in our usual communication such as varous meetings. These items should be ubiquitous language for our team. But we don't make best of it in our project. During coding, and design documents, we don't use the same language. Even we don't realise it's an issue. 

## Bounded Context ##

### Notes ###

* >  Multiple models are in play on any large project. Yet when code based on distinct models is combined, software becomes buggy, unreliable, and difficult to understand. Communication among team members becomes confusing. It is often unclear in what context a model should not be applied.

* > **Therefore**: Explicitly define the context within which a model applies. Explicitly set boundaries in terms of team organization, usage within specific parts of the application, and physical manifestations such as code bases and database schemas. Keep the model strictly consistent within these bounds, but don’t be distracted or confused by issues outside.

​		

### Learned###

When we try to build  large complex system, it will get realy hard to build a single model. Instead of this, we can divide it into bounded contexts, each of which can have a model. 

## DDD vs Microservices ##

> Modeling each service asa Bounded Context9 can be helpful since each service usually definesits own domain, each with its own Ubiquitous Language. Both thesetechniques are taken from the Domain-Driven Design (DDD)10toolkit of modeling tools. Of all the new concepts introduced here,consider DDD a good place to start learning. Microservices areheavily influenced by DDD and many of the terms you hear in con‐text of Microservices come from DDD.
>
> When communicating with another Microservice, across BoundedContexts, you can only ask politely for its state—you can’t force it toreveal it. Each service responds to a request at its own will, withimmutable data (facts) derived from its current state, and neverexposes its mutable state directly.

​	
​		
​			
​				
​					


​			
​		
​	


​			
​		
​	
